docs/sending-notifications/overview.md, before:

---
title: Sending notifications
weight: 1
---

The package leverages Laravel's native notifications to let you know that your backups are ok, or not. Out of the box it can send notifications via mail and Slack (for Slack you'll need to require `guzzlehttp/guzzle` in your project). 

## Configuration

This is the portion of the configuration that will determine when and how notifications will be sent.

```php
//config/backup.php

    /*
     * You can get notified when specific events occur. Out of the box you can use 'mail' and 'slack'.
     * For Slack you need to install guzzlehttp/guzzle.
     *
     * You can also use your own notification classes, just make sure the class is named after one of
     * the `Spatie\Backup\Events` classes.
     */
    'notifications' => [

        'notifications' => [
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\BackupHasFailed::class         => ['mail'],
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\UnhealthyBackupWasFound::class => ['mail'],
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\CleanupHasFailed::class        => ['mail'],
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\BackupWasSuccessful::class     => ['mail'],
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\HealthyBackupWasFound::class   => ['mail'],
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\CleanupWasSuccessful::class    => ['mail'],
        ],

        /*
         * Here you can specify the notifiable to which the notifications should be sent. The default
         * notifiable will use the variables specified in this config file.
         */
        'notifiable' => \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifiable::class,

        'mail' => [
            'to' => 'your@example.com',

            'from' => [
                'address' => env('MAIL_FROM_ADDRESS', 'hello@example.com'),
                'name' => env('MAIL_FROM_NAME', 'Example'),
            ],
        ],

        'slack' => [
            'webhook_url' => '',
        ],
    ],


```

Commit message:

Update README.md, docs and comment in config file (#1154)
* Update README.md and docs

* Update comment in config file

* One more fix

* Update config in docs/sending-notifications/overview to match default config

docs/sending-notifications/overview.md, after:

---
title: Sending notifications
weight: 1
---

The package leverages Laravel's native notifications to let you know that your backups are ok, or not. Out of the box it can send notifications via mail and Slack (for Slack you'll need to require `laravel/slack-notification-channel` in your project).

## Configuration

This is the portion of the configuration that will determine when and how notifications will be sent.

```php
//config/backup.php

    /*
     * You can get notified when specific events occur. Out of the box you can use 'mail' and 'slack'.
     * For Slack you need to install laravel/slack-notification-channel.
     *
     * You can also use your own notification classes, just make sure the class is named after one of
     * the `Spatie\Backup\Events` classes.
     */
    'notifications' => [

        'notifications' => [
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\BackupHasFailed::class => ['mail'],
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\UnhealthyBackupWasFound::class => ['mail'],
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\CleanupHasFailed::class => ['mail'],
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\BackupWasSuccessful::class => ['mail'],
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\HealthyBackupWasFound::class => ['mail'],
            \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifications\CleanupWasSuccessful::class => ['mail'],
        ],

        /*
         * Here you can specify the notifiable to which the notifications should be sent. The default
         * notifiable will use the variables specified in this config file.
         */
        'notifiable' => \Spatie\Backup\Notifications\Notifiable::class,

        'mail' => [
            'to' => 'your@example.com',

            'from' => [
                'address' => env('MAIL_FROM_ADDRESS', 'hello@example.com'),
                'name' => env('MAIL_FROM_NAME', 'Example'),
            ],
        ],

        'slack' => [
            'webhook_url' => '',

            /*
             * If this is set to null the default channel of the webhook will be used.
             */
            'channel' => null,

            'username' => null,

            'icon' => null,

        ],
    ],


```
